CAM 6.1 5 June 2015
1. Presentation reports using adjust bloc groupings
set.prg  changed bloc groupings
resINCN.prg  presentation charts and tables (documented
             in the file)

2. Updated historical data
WD.xls updated from WD81 database

3. Zero bond rate
est.prg  adjust to allow for zero bond rates

4. Adjusted baseline
sol0.prg  increase India's long-term growth rate and
          reduce China's rate.

5. New scenarios
sol4  India: sustaibale growth with FDI
sol5  China: new global financial centre ?

CAM 6.1 6 May 2015
1. Government revenue and transfers
The model has been extended to show government revenue on a gross basis (YGR) from which expenditure on transfers, subsidies and interest (YGTI) is deducted to obtain disposable income (YG). A new standard is provided for measuring government expenditure (GSTS) including transfers against GDP and a weighted measure of population.

One additional variable (ARG) must be loaded from the WD database.

Consequent changes to programs:
 - set.prg  no of series to be loaded
 - dat.prg  redefinition of variables
 - est.prg  equations for YGR and YGTI
            modified equations for labour force
            and unemployment to pick up
            the impact of government services
            and transfers
 - sol0.prg additional tuning to smooth the
            European boom predicted for 2016-17
            due to real devaluation of the euro

2. Scenario to illustrate use of new variables
A 'sustainable development' scenario for Europe (sol3.prg) illustrates possible use of new variables in CAM 6 (government revenue and transfers, direct investment, portfolio investment and other external assets and liabilities) to illustrate a policy setup in which the financial sector and cross-border investments are controlled to support the achievement of real economy objectives.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
CAM 6.0 22 April 2015

1. Historical database WD8.1
The new database has series for 207 countries for 1970-2013.
Sources and processing methods have been revised, some variable names have been changed and additional breakdown has been provided for external assets and liabilities.

Consequent changes to the model
 - new version of the downloader WD.xls with revised G20 mappings
 - new mappings in ALIGN.xls
 - adjustments to databank series names in dat.prg
 - adjustments to bounds and equation constants in est.prg

1. Alignment based on WEO April 2015 and ILO Oct 2014
The updated alignment has significant implications as it builds in recent oil price and exchange rate shifts - in particular a large real decline in the euro.
The ALIGN.xls workbook and sola.prg program have been adjusted to use employment and unemployment estimates from the ILO World Economic and Social Outlook database (source: ILO - Trends Econometric Models, Oct 2014).

2. Breakdown of external assets and liabilities
The model distinguishes direct investment, portfolio investment, 'other' assets and liabilities and exchange reserves. This brings out some large differences between the pattern of external operations and finance in different parts of the world with Europe having far higher cross-border investment than any other region. 

3. Savings and wealth
The savings equation (SP) has been modified to include a stronger wealth effect which reduces long-term divergence of the wealth-to-income ratio. Historical estimates of wealth (formerly assuming a fixed wealth/income ratio) have been modified to allow more flexibility - eg for Japan where government debt and net external assets imply a higher wealth ratio - and mitigate implausible fluctuations on estimated holding gains/losses on the domestic capital stock.

4. Holding gains/losses on external assets and liabilities
As cross-border assets have enormously increased in the past 20 years any change in the relative value of assets and liabilities can have a large effect on the balance of holding gains and losses and thence on private wealth with implications for the trend of savings and current account balances. Modelling of external holding gains and losses has been changed to avoid excessive swings of net gains/losses in long-term projections.

5. Inflation
Equations for inflation and profit mark-ups have been revised to provide a more robust model of the impact of changes in productivity, capacity utilisation and unemployment. Cost inflation (pvi) rather than earnings inflation (ei) is now the main behavioural variable. The potential influence of changes in productivity, markups, indirect taxes, capacity utilisation or the level of unemployment can be tested in this formulation. The most significant variable is the terms of trade. A coefficient has been imposed on the unemployment term to increase the sensitivity of inflation to demand pressure.

The impact of unemployment on inflation is affected by the real exchange rate (i.e. the impact is stronger in high-income countries). Therefore the level of unemployment has little impact in emerging market and low income countries where real exchange rates are lower and recorded variations in unemployment are small.

The reformulation requires changes to dat.prg, zdef.prg and sola.prg as well as est.prg.

6. Correction for unemployment impact on fiscal balance
Change to the equation for direct taxes net of transfers (YGD) to respond to the unemployment rate rather than the number of unemployed.

7. Other changes to program code
Model programs (zdef.prg, zlib.prg, zlibr.prg and sola.prg) have been modified to improve convergence and facilitate sensitivity checking for the historical period. Add factors now contain complete sets of historical residuals from the 1970s to the latest actual year with continuations for the alignment period and forward extrapolations to the end year (e.g. 2030).

